# Nightmare Hunt

## Rules

Keyword | Definition
------- | ----------
Wounds | Cards that you gain either in hand or in your *Action Discard* as a result of being attacked. May also be generated by an *Encounter* or *Condition*.
Death | If you ever have *Wounds* in hand equal to your *Body* you die. Place the current *Encounter* into the *Encounter Discard*. Search the *Encounter Discard* for the *Boss*, and if found, place it on the bottom of the *Encounter Deck*. Place the *Encounter Discard* on top of the *Encounter Deck* without shuffling it. Then return to town.
Recovery | Whenever you have no cards left in your *Action Deck* add a *Wound* to your *Action Discard* then shuffle your *Action Discard* and place it face down as a new *Action Deck*.
Town | Whenever you return to *Town*, remove all *Wounds* from your *Action Deck*, *Action Discard*, and *Hand*. Shuffle them together, form a new *Action Deck* and draw a new *Hand*. While in *Town* you may equip new *Armor*.
Reaction | You may take up to 1 *Reaction* to each enemy *Action*.
Cancel | If an action is cancelled it immediately ends without effect.
Time | Every *Action* has a *Time* cost. When playing an *Action* all enemies get *Energy* equal to the *Time* that *Action* took.
Energy | Enemies gain *Energy* as the player takes *Actions*. They spend that *Energy* to take their own *Actions*.
Power | How strong an attack is. Player attacks deal damage to the enemy equal to their *Power*. Prey attacks deal Wounds according to the Player's *Armor Track*.
Action Deck | Starts with 3 of each *Action*. May eventually contain *Wounds*.
Encounter Deck | Defines the list of encounters for a given level. Always ends with a *Boss*


### Character Information

Statistic | Starting Value | Definition
--------- | -------------- | ----------
Mind | 4 | Determines your maximum hand size
Body | 4 | Determines the number of wounds you can have in hand before dying. Body can never be higher than mind.

### Actions
#### Instinctual Action

Name | Cost | Description
---- | ---- | -----------
Pass | Time 0 | If you ever have no *Action* cards in hand you may take this action.

#### Basic Actions
As an additional cost to take a *Basic Action* discard an *Action* card from your *Hand*.

Name | Cost | Modifier | Description
---- | ---- | -------- | -----------
Punch | Time 4  | None | Power 3
Sprint | Time 4 | *Reaction* | If, after paying for an *Action* an Enemy would have 0 *Energy*, you may cancel that *Action*. Skip your turn.
Rest | Time 4 | *Recovery* | Discard your *Hand*.

#### Action Cards

Name | Cost | Modifier | Description
---- | ---- | -------- | -----------
Dodge | Time 3 | *Reaction* | Cancel an enemy *Action*. Skip your turn.
Parry | Time 3 | *Reaction* | If, after paying for an *Action*, an enemy would have 0 *Energy*, you may cancel that Action.
Slash | Time 5 | None | Power 5
Slam | Time 7 | None | Power 6
Swipe | Time 3| None | Power 4

### Armor

Armor | Defense Track | Penalty
----- | ------------- | -------
Robes | 1+ 3+ 5+ Critical 7+ | None
Leather | 2+ 4+ 6+ Critical 8+ | Slow 2
Plate | 3+ 5+ 7+ Critical 9+ | Slow 4

You take wounds for each value on your *Defense Track* that an attack's *Power* is equal or greater to. Add these wounds to your *Action Discard*. When you suffer a *Critical* attack gain those wounds into your hand instead.

Slow X: At the start of each *Encounter*, your Prey gains X *Energy*.

### Prey

If a *Prey* doesn't have a 0 Energy ability then it gains the following ability: 
Pass - 0 Energy - Do nothing.

Summon: Summoned enemies are *Trashed* at the end of the *Encounter*. They lose any "At the start of this *Encounter*" abilities.

Multiple Enemy Encounters: If an encounter contains more than one enemy they each gain energy when the player takes an action.

Fast X: At the start of the *Encounter*, this Prey gains X *Energy*.

### Conditions
All *Conditions* can stack unless they say otherwise.

Name | Effect
---- | ------
Burning | Whenever you take a non-Recovery Action, gain a Wound in your *Action Discard*. Lose this condition when you rest.
Vulnerability | Your *Armor Track* gains "3+". This stacks with any instances of 3+ already on your *Armor Track*. Lose this condition when you rest. 

### Game Play
You start in town and may choose to venture out. While in town you may change your equipped armor.
If you leave town, draw the top card from the encounter deck and resolve it. If the encounter summons Prey you must defeat it before continuing. You may return to town in between encounters if you choose, but this will reset the *Encounter Deck*.

#### Resolving Prey encounters
The Prey has the first turn. 

Prey Turn: The Prey uses the most expensive ability that they can afford.
Player's Turn: Choose and resolve an action. At the end of the turn draw cards from your *Action Deck* until you have cards in hand equal to your *Mind*.

## Levels
### Level 1 - Forgotten Forest

Encounter Name | Effect | Prey Health | Prey Action 1 | Prey Action 2 | Prey Action 3
----|----|----|----|----|----
Corrupted Kobold | None | 6 | Energy 3: Power 2 | Energy 6: Power 4 and skip the player's turn. | None
Rabid Dog | Fast 3 | 5 | Energy 2: Power 1 | Energy 6: Power 4 | Energy 8: Power 3 and Power 3 and skip the player's turn.
Angry Villager | None | 8 | Energy 4: Power 3 | Energy 6: Power 4 and skip the player's turn. | None
Dire Rat | None | 4 | Energy 2: Power 1 | Energy 4: Power 3 and skip the player's turn. | None
Vile Giant | None | 12 | Energy 8: Power 8 and skip the player's turn. | None | None
Dog Handler | None | 8 | Energy 3: Power 2 | Energy 4: Summon a *Rabid Dog* | Energy 5: Power 4 and skip the player's turn.

Boss Name | Effect | Boss Health | Boss Action 1 | Boss Action 2
----|----|----|----|----
Jack the Black | If Jack the Black would take wounds that would cause his total wounds to be greater than or equal to 22, remove all wounds. | 21 | Energy 5: Power 4 | Energy 8: Power 7 and skip the player's turn.

### Level 2 - Crimson Valley

Encounter Name | Effect | Prey Health | Prey Action 1 | Prey Action 2 | Prey Action 3
----|----|----|----|----|----
Charred Horror | None | 5 | Energy 1: Power 3 | Energy 6: Power 5 and skip the player's turn. | None
Ember | Fast 3 | 1 | Energy 3: Inflicts Burning | Energy 5: Power 2 and Inflicts Burning | Energy 7: Power 4 and Inflicts Burning and skip the player's turn.
Deranged Pyromancer | None | 8 | Energy 3: Power 2 | Energy 5: Power 1 and Inflicts Burning and skip the player's turn. | None
Conflagration Chimera | None | 10 | Energy 1: Inflicts Burning | Energy 6: Power 6 and skip the player's turn | None
Twin Flames | Summon 2 *Ember*s. | None | None | None | None
Inferno | Inflicts Burning. | None | None | None | None

Boss Name | Effect 1 | Effect 2 | Boss Health | Boss Action 1 
----|----|----|----|----
Flaming Heart | If Flaming Heart would gain a Wound or Die, if there's an Ember in this Encounter, it takes no Wounds instead and does not Die. | Summon 2 *Ember*s. | 1 | Energy 5: Summon an *Ember* and skip the player's turn.

### Level 3 - Forbidden Sewers

Encounter Name | Effect | Prey Health | Prey Action 1 | Prey Action 2 | Prey Action 3
----|----|----|----|----|----
Sneak Attack | Next *Prey* **OR** *Boss* gains Fast +3. | None | None | None | None
Marksman | None | 7 | Energy 1: Inflicts Vulnerability. | Energy 5: Power 3 and skip the player's turn. | None
Dagger Prodigy | None | 7 | Energy 3: Power 3 | Energy 6: Power 3 and Power 3 and skip the player's turn. | None
Distracting Mirage | Inflicts Vulnerability. | None | None | None | None
Tortured Giant | Fast 2 | 10 | Energy 7: Inflicts Vulnerability *THEN* Power 5 and skip the player's turn. | None | None
Stalking Shadows | Fast 1 | 4 | Energy 3: Power 3 and skip the player's turn. | None | None

Boss Name | Effect 1 | Boss Health | Boss Action 1 | Boss Action 2 | Boss Action 3 | Boss Action 4
----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----
Ayth, Ender | Fast 8 | 40 | Energy 1: Power 3 | Energy 4 : Inflict Vulnerability and skip the player's turn. | Energy 6: Power 3 and  Power 3 | Energy 8: Discard the player's deck and skip the player's turn.
